situation of riam-im. 149

consist together, if the whole sea be between, which is so put
by the maps.

III. Those things which we learn from the Talmudists
concerning the situation of this place cannot be produced,
until we have first observed certain neighbouring places to
Tiberias; from the situation of which, it will be more easy to
judge of the situation of this.

In the mean time, from these things, and what was said
before, we assert thus much: That you must suppose Tiberias
seated either at the very flowing-in os Jordan into the lake
of Gennesaret,—namely, on the north side of the lake, where
the maps place capernaum [illy]; or at the flowing out of
Jordan out of that lake, namely, on the south side of the
lake. But you cannot place it where Jordan flows into it,
because J osephus saith, Tiberias is not distant from Scytho-
polis above a hundred and twenty furlongs‚—that is, fifteen
miles; but now the lake of Gennesaret itself was a hundred
surlongs in length, and Scythopolis was the utmost limits of
Galilee southward, as we shewed before.

Therefore we are not afraid to conclude that Tiberias was
seated where Jordan flows out of the lake of Gennesar, namely,
at the south shore of the lake; where Jordan receives itself
again within its own channel. This will appear by those
things that follow.

We doubt, therefore, of the right pointing of Pliny. Oer-
tainly we are not satisfied about it3 and others will be less
satisfied about our alteration of it. But let me, with their
good leave, propose this reading, “ Ab oriente, J uliade; et
Hippo a meridie. Tarichaea, quo nomine aliqui lacum ap-
pellant, ab oecidente. Tiberiade, aquis calidis salubri.”—“ On
the east J ulias, and Hippo on the south. Tarichea, by which
name some call the lake, on the west. Tiberias, wholesome
forits warm waters.” Which reading is ⁸not different from
Pliny's style, and agrees well with the J ewish writers: but
we submit our judgment to the learned.

