Jmahm—Oadytis. 229

19351'252'237 παθη -Π-ιεῆ ”5³3¹ss “ιο build the palaea for
which I have made Ριονίιείοιι.υ

Suc-r. V1.-Jemakm‚· m Herodotus, is Oadytis.

Lm· us also salute Jerusalem, and that under its most glo-
rions name, ⁶ The Holy city? Herodotus points it out, if we
are not much mistaken‚ under the name of Oadytis. Ἀπὸ
Φοινίκης μέχρι οὔριων τῶν Καδύτιος πόλιος, ἡ ἐστὶ Συρίων τῶν
Παλαιστινῶν καλεομένων· “ From? Phoenioe unto the moun-
tains of Oadytis, which is the oity of those Syrinns who are
called Palestines.'' That Jerusalem is pointed out by him
under this name, these things following persuade me z

1. Its was eommonly called ΠΦἹἻΡ Kalatha& Holy. The
J ewish money, wheresoever dispersed, spoke out this title of
the oityt. But now( when it was very common in the Syrian
dialect to change m (Sabin) into Π (Thau), how easy was it
among them, and among, other nations imitating them, that
Gadysha should pass into Oadyta and Gaditis3 as ΠΦἻΠ Cha-
dasha, Now, passed into ἶἻΠἾΠ Chadacha.

ΙΙ. He compat-eth Gadyiis to the great city of Sardis.

For Ἀπὸ δὲ Καδύτιος ἐούσης πόλιος (ὥς ἐμοὶ δοκέει) Σαρδίων οὗ ·

πολλῷ ἐλάσσονος· “ From the oity C'adytis‚” as he goes on,
‘⁴ not much less than Sardis, as 1 think.” But now there was
no eity at all within Palestine worthy to be compared with
Sardis, a most famous metropolis in times past, exeept J e-
rusalem.

ΙΙΙ. These things also he speaks of Neohoh king of Egypt:
Καὶ Σύροισι πεζῇ ὁ Νεκῶς συμβαλὼν ἐν Μαγδόλῳ ἐνίκησε.
Μετὰ δὲ τὴν μάχην Κάδυτιν πόλιν τῆς Συρίας ἐοῦσαν μεγάλην
εἷλε. “ Butu Neeus joining in a foot battle with the Syrians
in Magdolus‚ obtained the victory: and after that, took
Gadytis the great eity of Syriass’

whioh passage, if it be compared with the holy story of
Pharaoh Neehoh overeoming J osiah in the battle in the vale
of Megiddo, and disposing of the Jewish throne, 2 Kings
xxiii. 33, 34, it fixeth the thing beyond all controversy.

r.'H‹21·odot m Thalia, [111. ]cap. 5. the Arabs.

t *ᾖῖςῇιήέίἳίὼοεῇξά vall. ιίΚέιᾱὲοέγ 159· ¹¹Horo ot. in Euterpe, [ii.] cap.

